In recent years, natural language processing (NLP) has moved to a very firm mathematical foundation. Many problems in  NLP, e.g., parsing [2] word sense disambiguation[3], and automatic paraphrasing [4]have benefited significantly by the introduction of robust statistical techniques.[1] In this paper we will discuss an unsupervised learning technique for a NLP  problem. With the recent increase in the amount of content available online, fast and effective automatic summarization has  become more important. The need for getting maximum information by spending minimum time has led to more efforts  being directed to the field of summarization. So in this paper we will discuss an unsupervised learning technique for the Automated Summarization problem. Text summarization is the process of automatically creating a compressed version of a given text that provides useful information for the user. The information content of a summary depends on user's needs. Topic-oriented summaries focus on a user's topic of interest, and extract the information in the text that is related to the specified topic. On the other hand, generic summaries try to cover as much of the information content as  possible, preserving the general topical organization of the original text. There are basically two methods of summarization: extraction and abstraction. Extractive summarization produces summaries by choosing a subset of the sentences in the original document(s). This contrasts with abstractive summarization, where the information in the text is rephrased. Although summaries produced by humans are typically not extractive, most of the summarization research today is on extractive summarization. Purely extractive summaries often give better results compared to automatic abstractive summaries. This is due to the fact that the problems in abstractive summarization, such as semantic representation, inference and natural language generation, are relatively harder compared to a data-driven approach such as sentence extraction. In fact, truly abstractive summarization has not reached to a mature stage today.